## The issue

Starting from ParallelCluster 3.1.1, NICE DCV package has been upgraded to version 2021.3.11591-1. 
Starting from this version of NICE DCV, the init script for Linux virtual sessions does not load the user's bash profile anymore by default.

A user creating a cluster with ParallelCluster and then connecting to the head node via DCV won’t be able to run Slurm commands (e.g. `sinfo`) or other commands requiring the user profile (e.g. `module avail`) from a terminal opened in the DCV session.

Affected versions (OSes, schedulers)

* The issue impacts ParallelCluster 3.1.1 and 3.1.2
* All the OSes supported by ParallelCluster are affected.

## Mitigation

### Alternative 1
The suggested solution is to create a new cluster with ParallelCluster >= 3.1.3 on which the issue has been solved. The profiles will be automatically loaded in the shell executed in the DCV session.

### Alternative 2
This alternative illustrates how to modify the NICE DCV configuration in the head node of an existing cluster.

1. SSH to the head node with `pcluster ssh -n cluster-name`,
2. edit the `/etc/dcv/dcv.conf` file adding `virtual-session-source-profile = true` under the section `[session-management]`,
3. close the current DCV session (if any) with the command: `dcv close-session $(dcv list-sessions -j | jq -r '.[0].id')`,
4. create a new DCV session with the `pcluster dcv-connect` command. It will source the user profile by default.

## Error details 

Starting from [NICE DCV 2021.3.11591-1](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/dcv/latest/adminguide/doc-history-release-notes.html#dcv-2021-3-11591) the init script for Linux virtual sessions does not load the user's bash profile anymore, please refer to [NICE DCV 2021.3.11591 changelog](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/dcv/latest/adminguide/doc-history-release-notes.html#dcv-2021-3-11591) for more information.

A new configuration parameter `virtual-session-source-profile` has been introduced. This parameter specifies whether the shell that runs the session starter script should source the user profile. By default this is `false` and DCV runs the session starter script with `bash --noprofile --norc`.

ParallelCluster configures DCV to load the profile starting from 3.1.3 release: https://github.com/aws/aws-parallelcluster-cookbook/pull/1418

